Flying Football Version History Notes:

Version 1.00 (Nov 2023)
Initial development of the app. Created Sprite batches and Background visible on screen only. Started following tutorials series: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxgX0Xe-eVYak1iBUEW7ES3e0fQfxOQw0.

Version 1.01 (Nov 2023)
This version added the football (theme-based substitute for flappy bird) with 2 images. The visuals showed it switching between the 2 images every 250 milliseconds (1/4 or 0.25 seconds) and it was in the direct centre of the screen.

Version 1.10 (Nov 2023)
Added movement of the football based on user input. The football was still switching between images, however removed the 0.25 second delay so was now switching instantly. The football moves up a small amount when the player taps the screen and moves down automatically when the player isn't tapping the screen. It can go above the display, however it can't go below so sits at the bottom when falls all the way down. 

Version 1.11 (Nov 2023)
Updated movement of the football, didn't add anything else yet. Added top barrier now and moved bottom barrier slightly up so that football is fully visible when sitting at the bottom. Football images now only switch when the player taps, normally in state 1, but when the player taps, updates to state 2 showing image 2 then switches back when player lets go, if they hold, it stays in state 2 for longer.

Version 1.20 (Nov 2023)
Added 1 moving goal with support to the centre of the screen. It appears when the player taps the screen and continues moving left, then when the player taps again, it reappears in the centre, it can go off screen as well.

Version 1.30 (October 2024)
Added more moving goals with random support heights so now there's 6 that loop around. Football movement was adjusted so that it moves up higher with each tap (can now move to top of screen with 3 taps). Also added a black outline around the football and goal supports, this was purely a testing feature and in preparation for collision detection later on.

Version 1.31 (October 2024)
First step in changing the logo, nothing really changed gameplay wise.

Version 1.32 (October 2024)
Logo was fully changed, nothing else changed then.

Version 1.33 (October 2024)
Above goal barrier with outline was added, other than that, nothing else yet

Version 1.40 (October 2024)
Goals now start further out at the beginning (1 whole width of the display further). Lower barrier and ball outlines added with first stage of collision detection - at the moment just logs collision. 

Version 1.50 (March 2025)
Added Scoring system and text font. Reworked Collision detection and so now works fully as intended, nothing happens after collision yet though (just logs it). Barrier and Ball outlines still there for now.

Version 1.51 (April 2025)
Added scoring text, however not fully in center and score gets added when going through barriers as well currently. Barrier and Ball outlines still there for now.

Version 1.52 (May 2025)
Added Game Over Texture, New Game State for it and Collision logic. Restart logic not yet implemented so can't replay after Game Over currently. Barrier and Ball outlines still there for now.

Version 1.53 (May 2025)
Added Restart Game logic, however now a bug noticeable where the ball sticks to the bottom and can't be moved up by the player if it touches the bottom. Also jump of ball too high so can't actually go through goals. Barrier and Ball outlines still there for now.

Version 1.54 (May 2025)
Some minor gameplay adjustments to make it easier. The goal velocity was decreased from 3 to 4. Ball jump up velocity was decreased from 30 to 10 so now the jumps are smaller and easier to control. Barrier heights were decreased slightly so now it's easier to go through without hitting them. Fixed ball sicking to bottom bug so moves up a bit (100 pixels) when hits bottom and can still be moved then.

Version 1.55 (May 2025)
Removed the barrier outlines (were only used for testing purposes) but may bring them back as a special togglable feature. Nothing else changed.

Version 1.60 (May 2025)
Reworked game speed logic so now increases with time (but also decreases at certain points, uses sine curve). Also increased height and width of game over graphic, however placement now misaligned (goes off screen towards right side).

Version 1.61 (May 2025)
Some minor graphical and gameplay changes. Decreased width between goals from 3 to 2.5. Realigned game over graphic so back in center. Also fixed alignment of score text so fully in center now. Also decreased height of barriers slightly so more room for ball to go through goal balancing gameplay more (decrease of distance between goals also balances gameplay).

Version 1.62 (May 2025)
Added quite a few changes here, the main addition being the pause menu and game state. First of all gamestate constants were added mapping to the different numberings of the now 4 gamestates. The "PAUSED" gamestate was added along with the pause button, main menu button (on pause screen) and new font size for these features. However, in this version the pause button doesn't work yet and the ball floats upwards and sticks to the top unless the pause button is tapped. 

Version 1.63 (May 2025)
Pause menu button graphics updated so now has a blue backing and looks like an actual button. Works now as well and pauses the game. A paused game graphic was added which displays when the game is paused (straight after tapping the pause button) and disappears when the game is unpaused - by tapping anywhere except the "Main Menu" button while on the pause screen. Main Menu button doesn't do anything yet (haven't yet added the main menu but will do soon) but doesn't resume the game either when tapped.

Version 1.64 (May 2025)
Just improved placement and visuals of "Main Menu" button, nothing else yet.

Version 1.65 (May 2025)
Added the Main Menu which loads when the app starts. Displays the game title and 3 buttons all arranged vertically in a center column, new font size created and used. The 3 buttons currently are "Play Game", "Settings" and "Exit". New font size set as Blue colour and size 50, used for text that flashes up after tapping "Settings" button - this text should stay there but need to fix that then. After pressing "Play Game" button, 4 new buttons flash up for the different game modes that will be coming soon, however these should also stay there and not just flash up, planning on fixing that next so can progress to actual game via "Play Game" then "Classic". "Exit" button closes the app as expected.

Version 1.66 (May 2025)
Minor styling changes and new game state added. The positions of button and font sizes were adjusted slightly, as well as a new screen being added for the gamemode select to ensure it doesn't flash but appear as a permanent selection screen until tapped again to go back to the main menu. However, game crashes on this version straight after pressing "Play Game" and gamemode select screen doesn't appear yet.

Version 1.67 (June 2025)
Gamestates were re-adjusted and 2 new screens added. The gamemode select screen now works and lets you select a gamemode. Currently, both Classic mode and Endless mode buttons take the player to the main game and gameplay is the same as before. The "Main Menu" button on the pause menu still doesn't work however. Tapping on the Settings button on the main menu also goes to the settings screen which is just a coming soon message so far, albeit the text size and positioning is still a bit off for this. Story and Arcade mode buttons flash up a coming soon message but this also needs to be a permanent screen transition.

Version 1.70 (June 2025)
Added a scoring file as well as a leaderboard and all associated methods to record and display high scores. Leaderboard button was added as a yellow button on the main menu and can tap again from any of these screens (Leaderboard, Settings, etc.) to go back to the main menu. Main menu button on the pause menu also works now and goes back to the main menu. Text styling and visuals need a bit of work though. Also game mode coming soon messages still flash and now sends the player back to the main menu straight away. Leaderboard scores work but text displayed is too big and unorganised.

Version 1.71 (June 2025)
Added new smaller font size for leaderboard names to somewhat fix leaderboard visuals. Also worked on game over screen where player can save their score, they can now choose an existing name to save their new score with as well. However, at the moment, instead of going to the game over screen, an illegal state exception happens (to do with sprite batches) causing the game to crash and close without being able to save the score.

Version 1.72 (June 2025)
Started adding new font type to make the text look cleaner, however it doesn't work yet and so game crashes before even starting.

Version 1.73 (June 2025)
Added error checking for font loading so that the previous error wouldn't occur anymore. The new font now loads, however it's really small, need to change scale of it. Also worked on the game over screen again, however same error still occurs here, need to fix that next.

Version 1.74 (June 2025)
Font sizes of the new fonts were adjusted to make them bigger, however alignment now off on some of the text in the game such as Main Menu title text. Game over screen crash issue still happens, still need to fix that. Added Endless mode in this version as well, however some issues, main ones being that the player can't move the ball yet and also the score minuses too much/fast.

Version 1.75 + 1.76 (July 2025)
Endless mode was added properly now with some bugs being sorted out then. Almost sorted out scoring system for endless mode (doesn't continually minus anymore). An "End Game" button has been added that allows the player to save their score, same as at the end of a classic game. Separate leaderboards have been created for Endless and Classic mode (different text files used for each), however they are still displayed as combined. Changed colour of leaderboard button on Main Menu to increase visibility and contrast. Final changes before release coming in Version 1.77.

Version 1.77 (July/August 2025)
Can now continue endless games from where left off at any time. An additional screen appears if there is a saved endless game (saves automatically when game paused) that has a green button on the left to Continue and a New Game button on the right. Changes to minus score system in Endless mode to make sure that points only get subtracted by 1 each time, full separation of Endless and Classic scoreboards, flashing of buttons on other screen fixed, fixed game crashing issues. Also can now go back to main menu from game select screen (tap anywhere other than the buttons). Finally added Realistic Audio sounds for moving the ball up, when it goes through goals, when it hits barriers, when it hits the bottom and bounces up and also when saving the score after the game is over.

Version 1.78 (September 2025)
Updated leaderboard logic for Endless and Classic modes. Improved the way scores are recorded and displayed, ensuring that both modes remain fully separated and accurate.

Version 1.79 (September 2025)
Several gameplay and stability improvements were made across multiple builds of this version. Fixed several gameplay and stability issues, including jump height, Endless scoring, mode‑switch glitch, ShapeRenderer crash, barrier alignment, and game speed adjustments. Attempted barrier outline changes but caused instability. This version was not fully stable and required further refinement in later updates.

Version 1.80 (January 2026)
Initial Story Mode groundwork added, including the new StoryLevel class, basic category system, and enum for level types. Implemented early logic for generating all Story Mode levels and began integrating Story Mode structure into the game. This version established the core foundation for later Story Mode development.

Version 1.81 (January 2026)
Major structural update for Story Mode. Added full level generation (120 levels), StoryLevel support for barriers, speed, lives, numbering and unlock state, plus StoryModeCategories integration. Introduced new Story Mode game states, category‑based level select with navigation, proportional tile layout, and level initialisation logic. Cleaned UI, removed duplicate code, and prepared the full Story Mode framework.

Version 1.82 (January 2026)
Added the first playable version of Story Mode. A basic level could now be opened from the level select menu, although the ball did not jump yet. Level tiles on the level select screen were centred properly along with the category title, creating a cleaner and more uniform layout.

Version 1.83 (January 2026)
Addressed several visual and functional issues reported during early testing. Improved text alignment, fixed broken hitboxes on the level select screen, and restored jump input in Story Mode. Updated all fonts to Roboto Condensed for improved clarity and added a new jump sound effect. Also resolved a bug where Story Mode levels failed to start due to mismatched hitbox coordinates.

Version 1.84 (January 2026)
A wide range of improvements were made across Story Mode and the main game. Fixed text rendering and alignment issues, improved Story Mode level select visuals, added a Back to Home button, resolved jump glitches, and improved the game over UI for Classic and Endless modes. Also added a shorter tap sound and fixed several array sizing issues that caused crashes when loading Story Mode levels. Story Mode levels now initialise correctly with variable obstacle counts, and a new lives display system using heart icons was added.

Version 1.85 (February 2026)
Added a polished Level Complete screen for Story Mode. The category and level number now display when a level is completed. Three new buttons were added (“Back to Level Select”, “Replay Level”, “Next Level”), each with full navigation logic. Integrated cleanly with existing game states.

Version 1.86 (April 2026)
Added an advertisement board to the bottom of the screen and integrated it with test ads using Google AdSense. No gameplay changes in this version.

Version 1.87 (April 2026)
Added the stars system for Story Mode. Stars now correspond to remaining lives at the end of a level and are displayed on the level‑complete screen, saved to a text file, and shown on the level select screen. Also included several minor UI adjustments.

Version 1.88 (May 2026)
Internal development version containing foundational changes for the upcoming scoring and cinematic systems. No major user‑visible features were finalised in this version.

Version 1.89 (June 2026)
A major update focused on Story Mode progression, cinematics, scoring, and UI improvements. Added a full scoring system with bonuses, penalties, multipliers, persistent saving, and a Story Mode leaderboard. Introduced in‑game score HUD, level‑complete summaries, and automatic “NEW HIGH SCORE!” detection. Added a new cinematic state with timed auto‑play and tap‑to‑skip, improved multi‑frame loading, and fixed level‑start sequencing. Leaderboard handling was refined with proper sorting and Story Mode auto‑switching. UI updates included improved level‑select tiles, star indicators, spacing tweaks, and cleaner level‑complete layouts.
